---
layout: single
title: Working on my first taxonomy!
date: '2015-02-10T12:11:00.005-08:00'
author: frances
tags: 
modified_time: '2015-02-14T13:10:44.272-08:00'



---



I just finished taking my online taxonomy and controlled vocabularies class 
through Simmons College, and I'm excited that it's turning out to be directly 
applicable to my everyday work. Fortunately I'm part of a release where the 
developers seem quite keen on maintaining consistent terminology, so I feel I 
have internal support to geek out on terms and their relationships. 

It's been a great exercise for me. It feels like a creative process to decide 
how to relate terms to each other and decide on facets. Meanwhile, deciding on 
hierarchical relationships really forced me to formalize a whoooole bunch of 
technical learning that was floating around in my brain. 

I'm currently maintaining an Excel spreadsheet of terminology decisions, which 
I'm calling a thesaurus because it includes hierarchical relationships, 
nonpreferred terms, and related terms. However, I've already gotten little off 
the beaten track in terms of classic thesauri--for instance, I have to 
maintain both "accepted equivalent terms" *and* nonpreferred terms. That's 
what happens when your API team and your app software team head in different 
directions, one going with industry standards and the other with internal 
standards!  No really easy solution there, unfortunately. 

At first I was a little bummed to author in Excel when I'd just learned about 
all sorts of fancy thesaurus software like Data Harmony and Synaptica, but [this post](http://taxodiary.com/2012/04/maintaining-a-thesaurus-in-an-excel-workbook) clued me into creating collapsible sections in Excel, which eased the pain.

 Overall I think it's the best decision for sharing the thesaurus with other 
content creators and stakeholders. I've already used it as a conversation 
starter with my co-writer, and we edited it quite a bit as a result. 

Here's a little peek: 


![taxonomy](/assets/images/taxonomy.png)



Finally, when it came to looking at existing thesauri, I ran up short. That 
worries me a little about the state of the field--why are so many abandoned 
ontologies, taxonomies, and thesauri floating around on the Web? I mean--I 
actually used Way Back Machine to find a [semiconductor dictionary](https://web.archive.org/web/20130507093403/http://www.sematech.org/publications/dictionary/u_and_v.htm).

On a related note, does Linked Data on the web really have momentum behind it?  Or 
is it that taxonomy and ontology efforts have a future in enterprises but not 
as much on the web? IKSO UK will host a [great debate](http://www.gurteen.com/gurteen/gurteen.nsf/id/T01541104/) on whether the thesaurus passed its sell-by date.. I'm definitely going to be watching  with interest.

 
