---
layout: single
title: 'Wisdom from the wellspring: attending a Central Texas DITA Users'' meetup'
date: '2015-06-08T09:58:00.000-07:00'
author: frances
tags: 
modified_time: '2015-06-08T09:58:10.229-07:00'


---

I've been meaning to attend a Central Texas DITA Users' meetup now for ages, 
having lurked their message boards for years. And I finally went! 

"DITA users" group doesn't begin to describe it--more like 
"creators-of-the-DITA-OT, 
there-from-the-beginning-and-still-fighting-the-good-fight" users' group might 
start to cover it. 
<a name='more'></a>It was really cool to meet some of the original IBMers and 
consultants who brought DITA to life, and interesting to hear some thoughts on 
future directions (the meetup focused on HTML 5 + DITA for ebook publishers). 

I was the only newbie at the meeting, the only female, and probably the 
youngest--sometimes a slightly uncomfortable situation for me. But I felt 
welcome, and these guys reminded me of people I've rubbed shoulders with in 
familiar social circumstances (one reminded me of a musician in my band; 
another of a family friend, for example), which helped me boldly speak up and 
ask questions. 

After the formal presentation, I talked DITA shop on some more esoteric 
questions, like push vs. pull strategies (i.e. conrefpush vs conref) and 
controlled vocabularies in DITA. 

The controlled vocabulary discussion was particularly interesting--early in my 
DITA-writing days, I tried to use conrefs and/or conkeyrefs to enforce 
consistency of table headings, spec names, and math variables. I've since 
decided that approach was too complicated and inflexible for my successor 
writers to easily maintain. But thanks to the meetup, I've learned about some 
new controlled-vocab/style-enforcing technologies that I'd never realized were 
possible: 


1. Acrolinks 
1. AQ plugin for ...(? need to check my notes on this, a google search wasn't 
immediately successful) 
1. Schematron for Oxygen 

I'm not sure to what extent these tools can be used for fine-grain style 
correction, beyond typical error messages about allowed datatypes inside 
tags--sounds like Acrolinks might work for the former, and Schematron for the 
latter? So, next up in my 10% time at work: research these tools. 