{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\tx690\tx1380\tx2070\tx2760\tx3450\tx4140\tx4830\tx5520\tx6210\tx6900\tx7590\tx8280\tx8970\tx9660\tx10350\tx11040\tx11730\tx12420\tx13110\tx13800\tx14490\tx15180\tx15870\tx16560\tx17250\tx17940\tx18630\tx19320\tx20010\tx20700\tx21390\tx22080\cf1\f0\fs20 how to be successful as a part-time project manager\par
Recently, I transitioned to a part-time schedule as a project manager. My reasons were many, but chief among them were family duties and an opportunity to attend a training program in a field unrelated to my career (and unlikely to make me much money ever) but of great personal interest.\par
\par
It's proven challenging, and the challenges have made me reflect on what would be a 'perfect' part-time arrangement: \par
\par
\b meetings & timing\par
\b0 Biggest challenge is being available for meetings. Things that can help include:\par
-being in the same time zone as your team\par
-splitting up the work day; being available for an hr or so in the morning, then more in the afternoon\par
-having a note-taker who's willing to send you minutes for meetings you can't attend\par
-biggest: having a culture that isn't overly dependent on meetings in the first place, and that holds them well when they do have them (I really like this analysis:  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://beyondmanaging.com/2015/07/meetings-dont-have-to-suck/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 http://beyondmanaging.com/2015/07/meetings-dont-have-to-suck/}}}\f0\fs20  )\par
\par
\par
\b "Sliceable" responsibilities \b0\par
As a project manager, there are 'broad-scope' responsibilities out there that have to do with interrelated schedule & product risks...and then there are smaller, more defined ones, that have to do with 'checklist' type responsibilities -- stuff like making sure that your product meets all the security requirements of your organization; all the 3rd party licensing and open-source legal requirements, etc. \par
\par
In my case, being part-time means that there are other project managers I work with closely.  So I have the ability to find ways to 'slice' the work with them as efficiently as possible. "checklist" work is easily broken up; not such a hard question. But 'broad-scope' responsibilities are trickier, and I think it really comes down to 1.my individual strengths (be they technical, tactical, perserverence, relationships w/ key stakeholders, etc) 2. how many meetings are required.\par
\par
For example, last year I worked on a product for which I had a deeper technical understanding than most PM's (since I had originally joined the group as a technical/qms writer and had worked on the design specs doc & functional product specs). So, I was well positioned to organize, take notes on, and capture actionable items for design meetings for that team -- and when working with another PM, I could bite off the management of 'design risks'. \par
\par
On the other hand, I think risks that are cross-team and require a lot of context (having attended meetings of other teams, etc) get to be challenging to manage part-time. For example, I recently was assigned management of a data-migration project. I thought I understood the scope, but there were 3 teams involved, and whenever my PM colleague dropped in to ask questions about the schedule, I'd realize there was lots of scope I hadn't discovered yet in terms of new requirements coming from other teams. I handed off that project in favor of another, because there wasn't anyone who could get me the context I needed in an efficient manner.\par
\par
\par
what are your thoughts? \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
  \par
\par
\par
how to job share as a project manager VS tech writer?\par
\par
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://capabilityjane.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/CapabilityJane-Individual-Guide-to-Job-Sharing-at-Senior-Level.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 https://capabilityjane.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/CapabilityJane-Individual-Guide-to-Job-Sharing-at-Senior-Level.pdf}}}\f0\fs20\par
\par
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ipma.world/challenges-part-time-project-manager/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf2 https://www.ipma.world/challenges-part-time-project-manager/}}}\f0\fs20\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
